Add commitment burndown columns (#400)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/commitmentdiscountpurchasedquantity.md

> # Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity

Author: It's not the amortized amount, it is the BilledCost of the purchase, no matter whether it's upfront, partial upfront, or no upfront.

> # Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity

Reviewer: (I think you mean PricingQuantity of the purchase without block pricing.)

If I purchase a $365 usage commitment for 1 resource and I'm looking at daily usage with 100% utilization, would CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity be $365 or $1?

> # Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity

Author: Reserved Instance - 1 year
Quantity: 8760
Units: Dollars

Reserved Instance - flex - 1 year
Normalization factor: 4
Quantity: 35040 (8760 hours * 4)
Units: Normalized Hours

Savings plan - 1 year
Quantity: 8760 ($1 / hour)
Units: Dollars

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total, positive quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for consumption from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a [*row's*](glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: This can be added as additional context, but it doesn't need to be added as a special case

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total, positive quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for consumption from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a [*row's*](glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: @udam-f2 @kk09v @flanakin There are conflicting viewpoints around whether to use `amortized` or not for purchases.  Can you comment to drive towards a solution?

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total, positive quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for consumption from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a [*row's*](glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer: I'm not picky on how we convey it. But if someone doesn't understand that, they could draw the wrong conclusions from the column. I'm not a size flex expert. I'm just thinking that without context here, it's easy to assume that CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity and CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity and ConsumedQuantity are all 1:1:1.

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total, positive quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for consumption from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a [*row's*](glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer: I haven't internalized the scenario where this will be used enough to know whether it should be amortized or not. Being amortized gives insight into the amortization logic that cannot be pulled from anywhere else. The purchase quantity is already in the data (albeit up to 5 years before). Depends on what we're prioritizing.

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total, positive quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for consumption from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a [*row's*](glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer 2: @flanakin thoughts on this:
https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/400#discussion_r1732252309

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total, positive quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for consumption from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a [*row's*](glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer 2: This doesn't factor in flexibility but I do think there's value in differentiating somewhere (could be in the first paragraph) about what the value this provides is compared to consumed quantity.

Michael, the short answer is in the case of SPs, purchased/consumed quantity is in hours for example while commitment discount consumed quantity is in $s. In the case of RIs, they're in similar units though again may differ based on size flex.

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total, positive quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for consumption from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a [*row's*](glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer 3: > ... in the case of SPs, purchased/consumed quantity is in hours ...

Isn't the CommitmentDiscountUnit for SPs in USD for both Purchase and Usage, meaning that both CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity and CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity are in USD?

Additionally, I assume that for each CommitmentDiscountId, CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity and CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity are measured in the same unit (CommitmentDiscountUnit), and that the total CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity must equal the total CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity over the commitment discount term. 

If you agree that that is true, I believe we should mention that as well.

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total, positive quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for consumption from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a [*row's*](glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: Additional lines were added:
1. `CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity` and `CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity` MUST have the same unit across the same commitment discount id. 
2. Usage-based -> "Hours", Usage-based (size-flex) -> "Normalized Hours", Spend-based -> "<BillingCurrency>" are recommended (i.e. `SHOULD`) but up to the provider.

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total, positive quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for consumption from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a [*row's*](glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: Going with Udam/Karl's suggestion to use "consumed"/"consumption"

> 

Author: I don't understand what this is saying.  Let's discuss and add subsequently if needed.

The CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity column adheres to the following requirements:

* CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *commitment discounts*.
* CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST be of type Decimal and MUST conform to [Numeric Format](#numericformat) requirements.

> * When [*ChargeCategory*](#chargecategory) is "Purchase", [*ChargeFrequency*](#chargefrequency) is "One-Time", and [*CommitmentDiscountId*](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null, CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity MUST be the total, positive quantity of *CommitmentDiscountUnits*, paid fully or partially upfront, that is eligible for amortization across the *commitment discount's* *term*.

Author: The editorial guidelines were done in parallel to this pr, so all editorial styling will be updated after approval

* When *ChargeCategory* is "Purchase", *ChargeFrequency* is "Recurring", and *CommitmentDiscountId* is not null, CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST be the total, positive quantity of *CommitmentDiscountUnits* that is eligible for amortization for each *charge period* that corresponds with the purchase.

> * CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MAY be negative, 0, or null in cases where [*ChargeClass*](#chargeclass) is "Correction".

Author: `0` in case of a correction occurring on a different measure but still wanting to keep the aggregation of this column accurate.
`null` should be removed and this was agreed to be handled in the consistency review.

> * CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MAY be negative, 0, or null in cases where [*ChargeClass*](#chargeclass) is "Correction".

Author: This isn't true though.  With a partial upfront commitment, the initial purchase shows half the quantity in the column and recurring purchase show just the quantity for the charge period in the column

> * CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MAY be negative, 0, or null in cases where [*ChargeClass*](#chargeclass) is "Correction".

Reviewer: Do you have an example? 

My only concern is that this opens us up to 0 being a compliant value for all refunds.

> * CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MAY be negative, 0, or null in cases where [*ChargeClass*](#chargeclass) is "Correction".

Reviewer: This isn't comparing usage to purchase. This is only comparing a single charge category and period, so it should always be true...
| Chg Cat | Chg Freq | Chg Class | CD ID | Chg Period | Res ID | CD Pur Qty |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Purchase | One-Time | | abc123 | Jan 1-Dec 31 | abc123 | 365 |
| Purchase | Recurring | | abc123 | Jan 1-Jan 31 | abc123 | 31 |
| Usage | Usage-Based | | abc123 | Jan 1 | vm1 | 2? 396? 730? |
| Usage | Usage-Based | | abc123 | Jan 1 | vm2 | 2? 396? 730? |
| Usage | Usage-Based | | abc123 | Jan 1 | vm3 | 2? 396? 730? |
| ... | ... | | ... | ... | ... | ... |
| Purchase | Recurring | | abc123 | Feb 1-Feb 28 | abc123 | 28 |
| Usage | Usage-Based | | abc123 | Feb 1 | vm1 | 2? 396? 730? |
| Usage | Usage-Based | | abc123 | Feb 1 | vm2 | 2? 396? 730? |
| Usage | Usage-Based | | abc123 | Feb 1 | vm3 | 2? 396? 730? |

> * CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MAY be negative, 0, or null in cases where [*ChargeClass*](#chargeclass) is "Correction".

Author: Additional lines were added:

- CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity and CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST have the same unit across the same commitment discount id.
- Usage-based -> "Hours", Usage-based (size-flex) -> "Normalized Hours", Spend-based -> "" are recommended (i.e. SHOULD) but up to the provider.

* CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST be null in all other cases.

## Column ID

CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity

## Display Name

Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity

## Description

> The total, positive quantity of Commitment Discount Units that is eligible for consumption from a *commitment discount's* purchase over the *row's* *charge period*.

Author: @kk09v @udam-f2 @flanakin same question her

> The total, positive quantity of Commitment Discount Units that is eligible for consumption from a *commitment discount's* purchase over the *row's* *charge period*.

Author: Leaving as is

# Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for amortization from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a corresponding [charge period](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: Fine to replace "amortization" with "consumption"

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for amortization from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a corresponding [charge period](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer 4: I'd agree that amortization isn't the right word here; replacing with "consumption" sounds as good as anything in the existing statement.

> Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity is the total quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is eligible for amortization from a [*commitment discount's*](#glossary:commitment-discount) purchase over a corresponding [charge period](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountPurchaseQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer 2: Consumption seems good to me.

The CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity column adheres to the following requirements:

* CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *commitment-based discounts*.

> * CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST be a positive value when [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is *Purchase* and [CommitmentDiscountId](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null.

Author: Changing to this which corresponds with similar wording in `CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity` 

```
* CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST be of type Decimal and MUST conform to [Numeric Format](#numericformat) requirements when [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is *Purchase* and [CommitmentDiscountId](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null.
```

* CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity value MUST be the total, positive quantity of units, denoted by [CommitmentDiscountUnit](#commitmentdiscountunit), available for a *commitment-based discount* across the [charge period](#glossary:chargeperiod).

> * CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MAY be negative in cases where [ChargeClass](#chargeclass) is "Correction".

Author: Will change to `negative, 0, or null`

> * CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MAY be negative, 0, or null in cases where [ChargeClass](#chargeclass) is "Correction".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity SHOULD be negative in cases where [ChargeClass](#chargeclass) is "Correction".
```

Author: Using `SHOULD` and removing `null` but keeping `0`.

* CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST be null in all other cases.

> In cases where *ChargeCategory* is "Purchase" and *CommitmentDiscountId* is not null, the following applies:

Reviewer 2: Line 9 also applies for the same condition thats mentioned here?

Author: Simplified to reduce redundancy

* When *ChargeFrequency* is "One-Time", CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST be the quantity of *CommitmentDiscountUnits*, paid fully or partially upfront, that is eligible for amortization over all *charge periods* of that *commitment-based discount's* [term](#glossary:term),
* When *ChargeFrequency* is "Recurring", CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity MUST be the quantity of *CommitmentDiscountUnits*, billed during the *charge period*, that is eligible for amortization over that *charge period*.

## Column ID

CommitmentDiscountPurchasedQuantity

## Display Name

Commitment Discount Purchased Quantity

## Description

The numeric value of *CommitmentDiscountUnits* that is eligible for amortization for any full or partial upfront purchase of a *commitment-based discount*.

## Content constraints

| Constraint      | Value            |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension        |
| Feature level   | Conditional      |
| Allows nulls    | True             |
| Data type       | Numeric          |

> | Value format    | Any valid, non-negative, decimal value |

Author: Will change to `Any valid decimal value`

> | Value format    | Any valid, non-negative, decimal value |

Author: ```
| Value format    | [Numeric Format](#numericformat) |
| Number range    | Any valid decimal value |
```
